[All Hosts] (debugging) fix articles about debug with VSC extension (#3211)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/debug-desktop-using-edge-chromium.md

---
title: Debug add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)
description: 'Learn how to debug Office Add-ins that use Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based) by using the Office Add-in Debugger Extension in VS Code.'

> ms.date: 02/01/2022

Author: Done

> ms.date: 02/01/2022

Author: Fixed

---
title: Debug add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)
description: 'Learn how to debug Office Add-ins that use Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based) in VS Code.'
ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.localizationpriority: high
---
# Debug add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)

Office Add-ins running on Windows can debug against the Edge Chromium WebView2 runtime directly in Visual Studio Code.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > This article only applies when Office runs add-ins in the Microsoft Edge Chromium WebView2 runtime, as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). For instructions about debugging in Visual Studio Code against Microsoft Edge Legacy with the original webView (EdgeHTML) runtime, [see this article](debug-with-vs-extension.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article only applies when Office runs add-ins in the Microsoft Edge Chromium WebView2 runtime, as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). For instructions about debugging in Visual Studio Code against Microsoft Edge Legacy with the original WebView (EdgeHTML) runtime, see [Office Add-in Debugger Extension for Visual Studio Code](debug-with-vs-extension.md).
```

> [!TIP]
> If you cannot, or don't wish to, debug using tools built into Visual Studio Code; or you are encountering a problem that only occurs when the add-in is run outside Visual Studio Code, you can debug Edge Chromium WebView2 runtime by using the Edge (Chromium-based) developer tools as described in [Debug add-ins using developer tools for Microsoft Edge WebView2](debug-add-ins-using-devtools-edge-chromium.md).

> This debugging mode is dynamic, allowing you to set breakpoints while code is running. You can see changes in your code immediately while the debugger is attached, all without losing your debugging session. Your code changes also persist, so you can see the results of multiple changes to your code. The following image shows this extension in action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This debugging mode is dynamic, allowing you to set breakpoints while code is running. See changes in your code immediately while the debugger is attached, all without losing your debugging session. Your code changes also persist, so you see the results of multiple changes to your code. The following image shows this extension in action.
```

![Office Add-in Debugger Extension debugging a section of Excel add-ins.](../images/vs-debugger-extension-for-office-addins.jpg)

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Node.js (version 10+)](https://nodejs.org/)
- Windows 10, 11
- A combination of platform and Office application that supports Microsoft Edge with WebView2 (Chromium-based) as explained in [Browsers used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). If your version of Microsoft 365 is earlier than 2101, you will need to install WebView2. Use the instructions for installing it at [Microsoft Edge WebView2 / Embed web content ... with Microsoft Edge WebView2](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/).

## Use the Visual Studio Code debugger

> These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office Add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, like this [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office Add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, such as the [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).
```

1. The first step depends on the project and how it was created.

>    - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office). You can use any one of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quickstart](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md), in order to do this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office). Use any one of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quickstart](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md), in order to do this. 
```

   - If you want to debug an existing project that was created with Yo Office, skip to the next step.

>    - If you want to debug an existing project that was not created with Yo Office, carry out the procedure in the [Appendix](#appendix) and then return to the next step of this procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you want to debug an existing project that was not created with Yo Office, complete the procedure in the [Appendix](#appendix) and then return to the next step of this procedure.
```

1. Open VS Code and open your project in it. 

1. Choose  **View > Run** or enter **Ctrl+Shift+D** to switch to debug view.

1. From the **RUN AND DEBUG** options, choose the Edge Chromium option for your host application, such as **Excel Desktop (Edge Chromium)**. Select **F5** or choose **Run > Start Debugging** from the menu to begin debugging. This action automatically launches a local server in a Node window to host your add-in and then automatically opens the host application, such as Excel or Word. This may take several seconds.

   > [!TIP]
   > If you aren't using a project created with Yo Office, you may be prompted to adjust a registry key. While in the root folder of your project, run the following in the command line.
   >
   > ``` command&nbsp;line
   > npx office-addin-debugging start <your manifest path>
   > ```

> 1. In the host application, your add-in is now ready to use. Select **Show Taskpane** or run any other add-in command. A dialog box will appear with text similar to, but not necessarily exactly, like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the host application, your add-in is now ready to use. Select **Show Taskpane** or run any other add-in command. A dialog box will appear with text similar to the following:
```

## Install and use the debugger

These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office Add-in project before using the Yo Office generator. If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, like this [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

1. If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office). You can use any one of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quickstart](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md), in order to do this. If you want to debug an existing project, skip to the next step.

> 1. Open VS Code *as an administrator* and open your project in it. 

Reviewer 2: I don't think open as administrator is required.

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you select **Cancel**, the dialog won't be shown again while this instance of the add-in is running. However, if you restart your add-in, you'll see the dialog again.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Author: Sorry, but I don't understand the comment. Is the IMPORTANT note what you mean by "this section"? It is already in step 5.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer 3: Sorry, that was a typo on my end. I was suggesting to move it to Step 4.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Author: They won't see dialog until they press Open Taskpane, so it can't be moved to Step 4, but I adjusted it to have the reader stop debugging and then restart debugging.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer 3: When I tested it, the dialog appeared when the host application started after pressing F5. I also noticed that the add-in didn't appear in the ribbon. Debugging appears to stop on its own, as the Stop Debugging option was grayed out after pressing Cancel in the dialog.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Author: I tested this a few times and I see what's happening. That error dialog appears anywhere from 5 to 35 seconds after I press F5 _regardless of what's happening in Office_. E.g., the error can come before the Office app has opened, after it has opened but before Show Taskpane is pressed, or after Show Taskpane is pressed. So, when the user sees it is going to depend on how fast Office opens and how fast the reader presses Show Taskpane. I think the best place to put this IMPORTANT note is in step 4, as you suggested, but it should say that the error could show up later.

Also, it does seem like the debugging stops automatically when I press cancel on the dialog most of the time, but not quite always, so I'll adjust the wording about manually stopping debugging.

>    > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer 3: Very interesting. Thanks for retesting, Ricky. The changes you're proposing sound great.

   > If your project was created with older versions of Yo Office, you may see the following error dialog box at this point.
   >
   > ![Error that says Configured debug type edge is not supported.](../images/configured-debug-type-error.jpg)
   >

>    > Select the **Cancel** button on the error dialog box. Open the `\.vscode\launch.json` file in the project. In the `configurations` array, there are several configuration objects. You need to edit the ones whose names have the pattern `$HOST$ Desktop (Edge Chromium)`, Where $HOST$ is an Office application; for example, `Excel Desktop (Edge Chromium)` and `Word Desktop (Edge Chromium)`. You need to make two edits to each of these configurations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > In the error dialog box, select **Cancel**. Open the `\.vscode\launch.json` file in the project. In the `configurations` array, there are several configuration objects. Edit the ones whose names have the pattern `$HOST$ Desktop (Edge Chromium)`, where $HOST$ is an Office application; for example, `Excel Desktop (Edge Chromium)` and `Word Desktop (Edge Chromium)`. Make the following two edits to each of these configurations. 
```

   > 
   > - Change the value of the `"type"` property from `"edge"` to `"pwa-msedge"`.

>    > - Change value of the `"useWebView"` property from the string `"advanced"` to the boolean `true` (note there are no quotation marks around the `true`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > - Change the value of the `"useWebView"` property from the string `"advanced"` to the boolean `true` (note there are no quotation marks around the `true`).
```

> 1. You're now able to set breakpoints in your project's code and debug. You can set breakpoints in Visual Studio Code by hovering next to a line of code and selecting the red circle which appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You're now able to set breakpoints in your project's code and debug. To set breakpoints in Visual Studio Code, hover next to a line of code and select the red circle that appears.
```

    ![Red circle appears on a line of code in Visual Studio Code.](../images/set-breakpoint.jpg)

> 1. Run functionality in your add-in that calls the lines with breakpoints. You will see that breakpoints have been hit and you can inspect local variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run functionality in your add-in that calls the lines with breakpoints. You'll see that breakpoints have been hit and you can inspect local variables.
```
